Ws are told by Aubrey that Hobbes began this poem sons
time before the Restoration-“ In 1659”, he says, “and sone
years before, his lord was at Little Sslishury house, (now
turned into the Middle erchanger, where he wrote, mongrt
other things, a poeme in Latin Hexameter and Postumus,
on the Enoroaohment of the Clergie (both Romen sod ne·
formed) on the civil power. Iremember 1 saw there w]
verses and more. He did read coarsuros Historia Urias*
salis, and made up his poeme from thence.'‘ [See Auhrey’r
Lisc of Hobbes, Lattara from tls Bodleian]

The poem may be more truly said to have been made up lm
the stm'rnsn, with the help of names and dates fron
Cluverius. Some of the most striking passages bon-owed
from that work are marked in this edition: and the render
will lind out more for himself.

Hobbes refers to this poem in his Vrrs, p. xx. He speaks olit
as having been written circa annum atatis sum octogesima,
and as containing versuum circiter duo millia. He adds
speaking of thc Bsnsnorn as well as the Hrsronns Eccum
serres, sed ooo sinebant tempora ot publicarentur. The

obstacle to their publication at the period alluded to by
Hobbes, about 1670, existed no longer in 16883 when the
latter work appeared for the first time.

The preface was written by the compilet of the Feruens, Thomas

Rymer os Gray’s Inn: to whom also must be attributed the
title-page and its motto.

 

